#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

 = NST Compatibility =

 == Actively supported platforms ==
We have a large regression test suite (written in NST, of course) which we run on several platforms before releasing versions of NST:
||'''NST version'''||'''Architecture'''||'''Allegro'''||'''SBCL'''||'''Clozure'''||'''CLisp'''||'''Lispworks'''||
||2.0.3-2.1.1||AMD64 kubuntu||8.2||1.0.29.11 debian||1.4-!r13119||2.44.1||5.1.1 Personal||
||2.0.3||MacOS64||8.2||1.0.36.13||-||-||-||
||1.3.1-2.0.2||AMD64 kubuntu||8.2||1.0.29.11 debian||1.4-!r13119||2.44.1||-||
||1.2.8-1.3.0||AMD64 kubuntu||8.1||1.0.29.11 debian||1.4-!r13119||2.44.1||-||
||1.2.7||AMD64 kubuntu||8.1||1.0.29.11 debian||-||-||-||
||1.2.6 and prior||x86 kubuntu||Various||Various||-||-||-||

 == Other platforms ==
We'd love to hear of your experience with NST on any other platforms. Out of the box, NST requires the closer-mop package, but should be adaptable to any platform with an implementation of the MOP.

'''Scieneer'''.  I've made some preliminary progress on getting NST to work on Scieneer, but it trips over the code in the expansion of a test macro which relates a test to its group. I don't think this is an NST bug, since it works as-is on the above platforms. But I also haven't had success in reproducing the error in a smaller bit of code not tied to the whole of NST that I could send as a good bug report example to Scieneer, and I'm not handy with the Scieneer debugger to tell what's going on there.

'''CMU CL'''.  At one point, NST compiled and loaded without error or warning, but loading NST's self-tests failed completely: "primitive halt called; the party is over." Unfortunately, CMU CL is not available for Ubuntu Karmic for AMD64 (my current work machine), so I haven't had an opportunity to debug this more deeply.

'''More platforms with MOP implementations'''.  Courtesy of [http://common-lisp.net/~dlw/LispSurvey.html this survey], I'm looking at including these other platforms with a MOP implementation in the regular test suite. If you have a particular need for NST compatibility for any of these (or others), please do email. 
 * [http://www.cormanlisp.com/ Corman CL]
 * [http://ecls.sourceforge.net/ Embedded CL]
 * [http://www.gnu.org/software/gcl/ GCL]