#summary NST unit test framework

= NST unit test framework =

Welcome to the trac/svn site for the NST unit test framework for Common Lisp.  NST offers separate and reusable fixture definitions, test groups, extensible test criteria, ASDF integration, and optional JUnit XML output.

== Distribution ==
 * NST is [http://www.cliki.net/ASDF-Install ASDF-installable] via its [http://www.cliki.net/NST CLiki page].
 * The [source:trunk] can be checked out from [https://svn.sift.info:3333/svn/nst/trunk].
 * [source:Tags] can be checked out from [https://svn.sift.info:3333/svn/nst/tags].
 * A [http://nst.maraist.org/download/nst-4.0.0.tar.gz gzipped tarball] is also available.

==  Documentation ==
 * [http://nst.maraist.org/download/manual-4.0.0.pdf NST manual] and [http://nst.maraist.org/download/quickref-4.0.0.pdf quick reference sheet].  Much of the content is auto-generated; load the `nst-doc` system to generate these parts.
 * [http://maraist.org/static/work/ILC2010-maraist.pdf A paper on NST] from the [http://www.international-lisp-conference.org/2010/index 2010 International Lisp Conference] (October 2010).
 * [http://nst.maraist.org/download/tc-lispers-nst-2009-06-10.pdf Slides introducing NST] to the [http://rpgoldman.real-time.com/tc-lisp.html Twin Cities Lispers' Group] (June 9, 2009).
 * [wiki:CompatibilityTable Compatibility details].  NST releases are tested on Allegro, SBCL, Clozure, CLisp and Lispworks on linux, and sometimes on Allegro and SBCL on MacOS.
 * [VersionHistory Recent changes].
 * [wiki:CodingConventions Coding conventions].
 * [wiki:ArchivalNotes Archival notes on very old versions].

== Future features and bugs ==

The trac is open to the public.  Here are a few searches we use on tickets:
 * [https://svn.sift.info:3333/trac/nst/query?status=assigned&status=new&status=reopened&group=milestone&col=id&col=summary&col=priority&col=component&col=blockedby&col=reporter&order=priority Ordered] or [https://svn.sift.info:3333/trac/nst/query?status=assigned&status=new&status=reopened&group=priority&blockedby=&order=priority&col=id&col=summary&col=priority&col=component&col=reporter grouped] by priority.
 * [https://svn.sift.info:3333/trac/nst/query?status=assigned&status=new&status=reopened&group=component&col=id&col=summary&col=priority&col=component&col=blockedby&col=reporter&order=priority Grouped by component].

This trac currently accepts new tickets only from registered user accounts.  If you are not a registered user, please email any new issues to '''nst-bugs''' at '''maraist''' dot '''org'''.  If you are a registered user, there is a separate page documenting our [wiki:TicketProtocol protocol for ticket fields].

== Authors ==

NST was written by John Maraist, with numerous contributions and suggestions by Robert Goldman.  Additional contributions and bug reports by Michael Atighetchi, Michael Pelican, Steve Harp and Jon Schewe.